How to distribute an extension in the Chrome Web Store (#1854)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/hosting/index.md

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Extension Hosting"
date: 2012-09-18
updated: 2021-12-10
description: >

>   How to host your Chrome extension.

Author: @dotproto I removed Chrome Web Store from the description. Is that okay? Any suggestion?

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Extension hosting"
date: 2012-09-18
updated: 2021-12-10
description: >
  How to host your Chrome extension.
---

<!--
Reframe this to focus explicitly on hosting.

2 options:
- CWS
- Self-hosting

CWS is by far the most common

note that during development you can also load unpacked.

> -->

Reviewer: Is this text supposed to be hidden?

> There are several different ways to initiate the installation of a Chrome extension, but there are
> only two officially supported distribution mechanisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to install a Chrome extension, but there are
only two officially supported distribution mechanisms.
```

[Chrome Web Store][cws-about]

: Chrome Web Store is an online marketplace for Chrome extensions and themes. Developers who
  register with the Chrome Web Store can publish their extensions and make them available to users
  across the world. Only extensions hosted on and signed by the Chrome Web Store can be directly

>   installed by end users\*. See [Publish in the Chrome Web Store][cws-publish] and [Enterprise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  installed by users. See [Publish in the Chrome Web Store][cws-publish] and [Enterprise
```

  publishing options][cws-enterprise] for more information about how to publish on Chrome Web Store.

Self-hosting

> : is the practice of hosting an extension outside of the Chrome Web Store. This option is used in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Self hosting is the practice of hosting an extension outside of the Chrome Web Store. This option is used in
```

Reviewer: This may violate the best practice to omit needless words. This follows another best practice: "express coordinate ideas in similar form" (aka "parallelism", Strunk and White, rule II 19).

  managed environments where system administrators control Chrome with [enterprise
  policies][external-enterprise-policy]. See [Linux installation][doc-linux-hosting] for information
  on how to host an extension on your own server.

In both cases, Chrome periodically checks extension hosts for new versions of installed extensions
and automatically updates them without user intervention.

[Unpacked extensions][doc-load-unpacked] should only be used to load trusted code during the
development process.

> *\*Linux users can manually install packed extensions that are not distributed or signed by Chrome
> Web Store.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside %}
Linux users can manually install packed extensions that are not distributed or signed by Chrome
Web Store.
{% endAside %}
```

Reviewer: This is the second time I've seen "\*". What is that?

layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"

> title: "Chrome Web Store"

Reviewer 2: We should rename this file to something else as it is only tangentially related to "Chrome Web Store". Maybe "Extension hosting"?

Author: @dotproto Any thoughts on the description?

date: 2012-09-18
updated: 2021-12-10
description: >
  How to publish and update your extension in the Chrome Web Store.
---

<!-- This docs has been changed to primarily explain 
     how to publish and update to the Chrome Web Store.
     TODO: A rewrite should explore examples and use cases of
     each distribution options (locally unpacked, enterprise, 
     JSON preference file, personal server for Linux users). -->

Most extensions are hosted in the [Chrome Web Store][what-is-cws], an online marketplace where users
can browse for Chrome extensions and themes.

There are three exceptions to the Chrome Web Store hosting rule:

> 1.  Extensions that are distributed through the [enterprise policy][enterprise-policy].
> 1.  Unpacked extension directories from a local machine while in [developer mode][load-unpacked].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Unpacked extension directories from a local machine while in [developer mode][load-unpacked].
1.  Extensions that are distributed through the [enterprise policy][enterprise-policy].
```

Nit: flip the order of these as developer mode is probably the most common option our readers will encounter.

Author: Good point! 🙂

---

<!-- This docs has been changed to primarily explain 
     how to publish and update to the Chrome Web Store.
     TODO: A rewrite should explore examples and use cases of
     each distribution options (locally unpacked, enterprise, 
     JSON preference file, personal server for Linux users). -->

Most extensions are hosted in the [Chrome Web Store][what-is-cws], an online marketplace where users
can browse for Chrome extensions and themes.

There are three exceptions to the Chrome Web Store hosting rule:

1.  Extensions that are distributed through the [enterprise policy][enterprise-policy].
1.  Unpacked extension directories from a local machine while in [developer mode][load-unpacked].
1.  Extensions hosted on a personal server for **Linux users only**. See [Linux
    installation][linux-install].

## Publishing {: #hosting }

All extensions are distributed to users as a special ZIP file with a `.crx` suffix. Extensions
hosted in the [Chrome Web Store][cws-docs] are uploaded through the [Developer
Dashboard][developer-console] as `.zip` files. The publishing process automatically converts the
`.zip` into a `.crx` file. 

> {% Aside %}

Reviewer: Probably doesn't need to be an aside. Your choice.

Author: It does look better without the asides. I'm going to remove both 🙂

See [Publish in the Chrome Web Store][publish] to learn more. 

{% endAside%}

## Updating {: #updating }

The Chrome Browser periodically checks for new versions of installed extensions and updates them
without user intervention.

> {% Aside %}

Reviewer: I'm just not crazy about turning cross-references into asides.
